"**Did you meet the goals you set out to achieve for this course? Was it accomplished? Why/why not?**"


## The Journey Between 3-atomic_notes/Mediums and Messages and website/The Science of Computing- The ARPANET after Twenty Years
- [[3-atomic_notes/Mediums and Messages]]
- [[website/Vannevar Bush- As We May Think]]
- [[3-atomic_notes/Archaeology, Theoretical Framework]]
- [[Memex 3/The Evolution of the Internet – Understanding Media and Culture]]
- [[Memex 3/A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication]]
- [[website/The Science of Computing- The ARPANET after Twenty Years]]



**Answer**


Coming into this course, I didn't know much about the history of the internet, in fact that was one of the things that enticed me to enroll the course. Being a computer science student, computers are a constant appearance in my everyday life, so when I was looking for an elective and saw the course description, I remember thinking to myself "Isn't it a bit embarrassing that you spend all this time on your computer and on the internet yet you don't know anything about the history of it?". So I enrolled and now here I am, answering the final question of the course. Of course feeling obligated to do the course is hardly any motivation to get involved in it, so going into the tutorial level I wanted to choose something else that I could get interested about. One thing that caught my eye was how humans are connected, and it got me thinking about the history of human connection, and how it relates to the internet. Of these two goals, I answered both. The first goal I answered all throughout the entire course, especially pertaining the section we covered on transmission protocols for networked systems, such as TCP/IP(which funny enough I later also covered in one of my computer science courses). The other goal is the one I want to deep dive into.


One thing that really struck me was that essentially everything about networks and the internet is just one entity communicating a message to another. If you really think about it, sending an email to someone is sending them a message, your request communicates with servers, which then communicates with other servers and so on, which eventually communicates with that person, notifying them that you've sent them an email. In that sense, can we not say the true origins of the internet go back several hundred, if not thousands of years? But what does lighting fires in Greek times have to do with watching Youtube videos? They both communicate a message from one human to another, whether it be that enemy forces are fast approaching or that the new iPhone will have yet another camera. The history of human connection is tied as far back as our existence, and the modern internet is just an extension of the desire to communicate with one another. When communication is at risk, such as during wartime, innovations are made due to necessity of communication that advances our ability to send complex messages to each other. [[Mediums and Messages| Ciphers]] and codebooks used in Roman times lead to advanced cipher and code cracking machines seen in WWII, which in turn leads to the internet as we know it today, with large encryption techniques used to make sure nobody can hijack an email you send to your friend. Network protocols like [[A Protocol for Packet Network Intercommunication]] were developed for better communication between people. People like Paul Baran worked on distributed networks that would survive attacks to the system. Our desire to connect to each other and the importance it has on our lives is something we continuously strive to protect and improve, and with the invent of the internet, that connection has found even more ways to manifest itself. Perhaps the most prevalent form of connection on the internet is mass communication, in which one person sends a message out onto the open internet for anyone to see. A simple form of this is a youtube video, in which the uploader makes a video for anyone that comes across it to look at. This creates a connection between the viewers and the uploader, both in the form of the viewcount of the video as well as the information imparted on the viewer. [[Vannevar Bush- As We May Think| Vannevar Bush]] had a similar idea, with his memex. In his memex, people have a device where they store all their information, and can easily pull up multiple pages of information on the same desk at once. This repository of knowledge can be shared with other people, who take inspiration from some of your notes and improve on theirs, interlinking the two. This creates a connection between humans in the form of not only the sharing of opinions, but in the forwarding of that knowledge to other memexes, other repositories which in turn connect with more and more people. This would undoubtedly increase the human experience. When looking at Vannevar Bush and his memex, it is crucial to think about [[Archaeology, Theoretical Framework|assemblage theory]]. In assemblage theory, there is an idea called agencement, which is the idea that things come together. The meaning is dependent on the context, and nothing is meaningful on its own. This incorporates itself into the idea of the memex because the relation and connections between pieces of shared knowledge attribute even more meaning to them. Shared knowledge then, would always have inevitably led to social media, as humans(being social animals), always have looked for more and better ways of being connected to one another. This leads to the creation of social media forums like BBSes and GeoCities, touched on in [[The Evolution of the Internet – Understanding Media and Culture]]. The popularity of social media forums on the modern internet, and their importance all throughout the history of the internet showcases how we continue to connect to one another. 


I never really thought about how just about everything we do on the internet is about communicating a message. The history of human connection is something that can looked at as far back as the existence of humans, and the invent of the internet, its advancements, culture, and explosion in popularity is an extension of that want to connect. Whether it is something as complex as collaborating on an in depth paper on string theory, or something as simple as sending a meme to your friend, communication is the purest form of connection, and the modern internet is the perfect embodiment of that.